# marc2bibframe2 release notes

## v1.6.0

Conversion updates based on specifications v1.6. See the Library of Congress' [BIBFRAME site](https://www.loc.gov/bibframe/) for more details. Specifications are included in this distribution in the [spec](spec/) directory. Changes of note:

* Many duplicate properties generated by the LDR/fixed fields conversions, as well as data fields 336, 337, and 338, have been eliminated. In most cases only one of the applicable properties should be generated.

* More URIs have been added to the 007 and 006/008 conversions, which should result in the generation of fewer blank nodes.

* In many cases, an attempt is made to assign a URI to bf:Source and bf:assigner/bf:Agent nodes where appropriate.

* URIs have been added to the bf:source properties generated by MARC subject fields reflecting the subject thesaurus in use.

* There has been a major overhaul of processing for multiscript records (records with 880 fields). In particular:
    * xml:lang attributes can now be generated from ISO-15294 codes in the $6 as well as MARC-8 codes.
    * MARC 880 fields are now matched with their linked "regular" field using the occurrence number in the $6. This is done to allow either the vernacular or the Romanized field to be converted, based on the configuration in the [map880.xml](xsl/conf/map880.xml) configuration file. See the numeric subfields conversion specification for more details. The general strategy:
        * Unlinked fields (with occurrence "00" or no matching occurrence number) are always converted.
        * For identifier fields (010-099), the regular data field is preferred over the linked 880.
        * For authority-controlled fields, the regular data field is preferred over the linked 880, as vernacular versions of the strings should be available from the authority record.
        * For other fields, the 880 is preferred, with some exceptions.
        * The 245 represents a special case: _both_ the 245 and the linked 880 are converted, and the properties generated by both fields are assigned to the same subjects.

* Use of the `localfields` stylesheet parameter has expanded to accommodate more local processing specific to the Library of Congress. In particular:
    * `localfields` controls handling of bf:Item generation from the 050, 051, and other fields.
    * For fields with $5, `localfields` will only process fields if the value of $5 is "DLC".
    * `localfields` limits the processing of 856 and 859 fields to only a few matching URL patterns.
